don't do a little role play with me
maybe I can sell sales Loft you can be
the VP of sales at Dunder Mifflin and uh
we can have a little mini Discovery
board to show you the questions I might
tell us to ask in I mean you know I love
role play you know as a sales person you
know we all love it don't we so I'm I'm
I'm I'm up for this 100 and this is the
first for the podcast so let's let's go
for it I thought I might surprise you
with this one um right so let's just say
to context here you're a VP of sales
don't be too hard on me because you want
to make sure it's actionable but if
coming for a discovery pool the first
thing I might ask is hey uh appreciate
you coming in Tom
are you happy for just to spend a you
know a few minutes of me asking you some
questions to see if there's a fit
between sales Loft and acne
sounds good yeah let's do it
permission's important because otherwise
they're going to feel like they're being
interrogated and you know they're going
to think what's going on here all right
great
um so so what was the what was the
reason you wanted to have a conversation
today Tom well this was obviously set up
by someone else but I do like the look
of what you do and really I just want to
know a bit more
you want to know a bit more about what
we do here at salesloft I've got that
right that's right
yeah so typically when people come to
Warsaw when we go to people
um that they're often solving one of
three challenge facing one of three
challenges
um do you mind if I just list those off
and see if any of those are relevant to
you go for it sure so
challenge number one they're having
really low response rates uh that's
sdr's just on booking enough meetings
Challenge number two they've got a
complete lack of visibility in their
sales Cycles so they're finding it
really hard to forecast especially with
top and funnel activities
and the third problem is that that's
even just too slow they're not doing
enough uh they're not hitting their
activity benchmarks which of those three
problems is the most relevant to you
well I mean I think we we touch on all
of them here and but probably the the
idea of benchmarking and an
understanding success
right so it sounds like visibility would
be the most relevant of those three
things could you tell me a little bit
more about that
well I'm not really sure what they're up
to we're all remote you know they're all
over the place trying to manage people
around the world here and I've got stuff
to do you know I've got calls to make
and you know I've got a family as well
I'm I'm being torn left right and Center
so I need to understand what the team
are doing
that makes a lot of sense and I I'm
sorry to hear you're being thrown around
so much trying to chase down a bunch of
sales people what do you think the
reason is that you you don't have that
visibility today
well I think it's I'm I'm I feel a bit
like I'm out in the out in the dark
right I have to take what the what the
team are telling me as gospel I don't
know if it's the truth that's kind of it
how are they currently giving you that
information WhatsApp WhatsApp oh no Tom
sorry to hear that I know I hate
WhatsApp it's all gifts and memes
and it seems as though that information
they're giving you isn't always accurate
that's correct
what's the reason you think they're
they're not giving the most up-to-date
information
I don't know if it's because they're
ashamed I I'm not I'm not sure but I
just want to say everything that they've
got
sure
so to me let's take a stop that to me
I'm hearing a root cause that that maybe
that their reps are maybe a little bit
ashamed of the results and are not
willing to be transparent about what
they're doing basically
um so that that's the root cause we we
might want to solve to me it sounds like
a control issue the Reps they're not
doing exactly what they want because
they want to be misleading or they don't
want to be in trouble for their activity
so that's what we're just trying to try
and solve with sales Lofts that's the
root cause
so just to make sure I've got this right
time your team you're currently having
to chase everywhere you're getting sent
information via WhatsApp that's not
always up to date and it seems as though
the team kind of giving you telling you
what you want to hear rather than what
the actual fact is
have I got that right that's right
awesome well not awesome I apologize
what happens when you don't have that
visibility into what the team are doing
well I'm unable to then understand from
uh from my perspective the performance I
can't then share that to to my team uh
I'm just a bit lost with it all
what happens when it's oftentimes when
I'm talking to VPS of sales they often
run those numbers up to someone above
them like a CEO what happens when you
when you give them potentially
misleading information
we have to have a very serious talk and
uh you know I often
start to sweat which which is why you
know I'm happy to be on this call to see
if you've got a solution for that that
makes sense so just to maybe recap
when you don't get the right numbers you
have no passing that problem along to
the CEO he's probably feeling similar
ways to the way you mentioned earlier
frustrated
and and that creates some tension
between you
how long has this been a problem for
from day one day one wow and you've been
there for almost three years I'm crikey
all right so all right so that's kind of
my impact there I've got an emotional
situation there might be I might even
dived a little bit deeper into that
these questions get a lot harder to ask
when you get close to the emotional but
they're the best questions because we
might uncover Tom that you're at risk of
losing your job because the CEO is so
frustrated right so what we've uncovered
there is a root cause the Reps don't
want to tell you because they're they're
not doing the right kind of work and
then the impact is that you've got a
hard relationship now going with your
CEO and it's taking an emotional telling
you you're frustrated you're you're
tired you want to spend more time with
your family so those are some impacts
there as well and that's ultimately what
we could solve
so great you know it was it's great to
hear you talk about this because when
you talk about root cause and impact
demonstrating that like I know that the
listeners might be like well how does
that actually sound but to to see it
brought to life in the role play and I
thought I brought something to the to
the character as well